An Exploration of the Main Characters in Ulysses 

Abstract: This paper reviews the three main characters in Ulysses by analyzing the parallel link between the features in Odyssey and their actions in the novel, and then draws a conclusion that the chief function of them is to present a real Irish society in that period, which shows the attempt of Joyce to make human nature return to reason.
Key words: Ulysses, characters

1.	Introduction
Ulysses written by James Joyce is a representative of modernist novels. It is considered as one of the most important works of modernist literature, and has been called “a demonstration and summation of the entire movement” [1]. In the writing period, Ireland is occupied by England, and the Irish society has much problems awaiting to be solved. To some extent, the novel is Joyce’s attempt to establish the direction for the future development of Irish people and their religious culture.
2.	The overview of the plot 
Ulysses chronicles the peripatetic appointments and encounters of Leopold Bloom in Dublin in the course of an ordinary day, 16 June 1904. Ulysses is the Latinized name of Odysseus, the hero of Homer’s epic poem Odyssey, and the novel establishes a series of parallels between the poem and the novel, with structural correspondences between the characters and experiences of Leopold Bloom and Odysseus, Molly Bloom and Penelope, and Stephen Dedalus and Telemachus, in addition to events and themes of the early twentieth century context of modernism, Dublin, and Ireland's relationship to Britain. The novel imitates registers of centuries of English literature and is highly allusive. [1]
Ulysses has a corresponding relationship in the plot of Odyssey. At the beginning, Stephen wants to find a spiritual father, while in the old poem, Odysseus is struggling to look for his lost father regardless of the multiple setbacks. In the middle part, Bloom wonders in the streets of Dublin, which parallels the part in Odyssey that Odysseus is on the way back home and experiences lots of difficulties. In the end, Bloom goes back home with Stephen indicates a happy ending, just like Odysseus back home and his family – Odysseus, Penelope and Telemachus reunites. As for the characters, the character of insignificance and paltriness, Bloom is in the sharp contrast of powerful Odysseus. At the same time, the distinction between, on the one hand, empty inside Stephen and frivolous Molly and on the other hand, fearless Telemachus and loyal and steadfast Penelope is evident. It is noteworthy through this contrast that there is a huge gap between the despicable and mean reality and the heroic history. The criticism of the modern society is presented by this sharp distinction, which is based on Odyssey. Yin said that no Odyssey, no Ulysses. [2]--互文性
The story begins at morning hours of 1904, Dublin. Stephen, a young history teacher, resents his roommate Buck--an English man, and wants to get rid of him. After he finishes his morning class and retrieves his wages, he just walks along the street and thinks about his younger self and about perception. At the same time, Bloom prepares breakfast for his wife, Molly and their children, and delivers a letter to Molly from Boylan who is probably Molly’s lover, but then Bloom leaves the house and goes to his office. After that, he attends to a funeral of Paddy, which reminders Bloom about the deaths of his son and his father. At noon, Bloom is negotiating an advertisement for Keyes, a liquor merchant. But his ad negotiation is rejected by Crawford, the editor. At 1:00 P.M., Bloom spots Boylan on the street and ducks into the National Museum. At 2:00 P.M., Stephen’s “Hamlet theory” is dismissed by A.E., and runs into Buck who scolds Stephen for failing to meet him at pub. On the way out, Stephen passes Bloom. At 4 P.M., Bloom sees Boylan set out for Molly. At 10:00 P.M., Bloom joins Stephen and his friends. After they drink, Stephen imagines he sees the ghost of his mother and makes an oral fight with a British soldier. Bloom revives Stephen and invites him back to his own house. Well after midnight, they arrives, and talks a lot for their respective background. It seems they find the precious thing in each other they are looking for so long. After Stephen leaves, Molly remains awake and thinks much about her younger years, her career and Bloom. 
3.	Bloom
Bloom is a Jewish excluded by other Irishmen. While it is the time, when Ireland was conquered by Briton. Bloom bears the stress both from the compatriots and the colonists. However, he is just an Everyman, having no power to change the reality that his motherland is lost, even cannot change others’ unfair prejudice. Others call him that has no ability in sexuality, though his wife Molly does have several lovers, it is not his fault. He should have done something, but he doesn’t, even giving the floor to Boylan instead. 
The crisis of family line is related to a second crisis of marital infidelity: the Blooms’ intimacy and attempts at procreation have broken down since the death of their only son eleven years ago. Bloom’s reaction to Molly’s decision to look elsewhere (to Blazes Boylan) for sex is complex. Bloom enjoys the fact that other men appreciate his wife, and he is generally a passive, accepting person. Bloom is clear-sighted enough to realize, though, that Boylan is a paltry replacement for himself, and he ultimately cheers himself by decontextualizing the problem. Boylan is only one of many, and it is on Molly that Bloom should concentrate his own energies. [3]
In addition, he loves his family by working hardly for them, preparing breakfast and reading to his daughter. Bloom lives so cautiously and prudently, he cannot match the character of traditional hero—Odysseus who is a perfect conquer possessing the merits like persistence, courage, wisdom. Nevertheless, the old hero is nearly an almighty god, we cannot see the whole picture of this person. Only can we see is his triumph and all his positive side. No one is perfect, as where there is sun light there is a shadow. Bloom is a “3-dimensional” [4] character, from which we can see the every aspect of the person, including his positive and negative sides and the real person inside him. Furthermore, through this character, the author presents the subjective world to us readers.
4.	Stephen
Stephen’s first appearance is in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, in which his character is developing from early childhood to his proud and ambitious days. At the beginning of Ulysses, Stephen is a self-conscious young man whose identity is still in formation. Stephen’s aloofness and his attempts to understand himself through fictional characters such as Hamlet dramatize his struggle to solidify this identity.
Stephen is depicted as an ambitious, proud and aloof young man. In that society such a man has no choice but to feel depress and fall. He exists mainly within his own world of ideas—his actions in the world tend to pointedly distance himself from others and from the world itself. His cryptic stories and riddles cut others off rather than include them. He stubbornly holds grudges, and our admiration of his noble struggle for independence is tempered by our knowledge of the impoverished siblings he has left behind. [3] Stephen’s struggles tend to center around his parents. His mother, who seems to blame Stephen for refusing to pray at her deathbed, represents not only a mother’s love but also the church and Ireland. While his father is still alive and well, we see Stephen attempting to ignore or deny him throughout all of Ulysses. This indicates that Stephen doesn’t believe in religion anymore and also betrays the authority of his father as well as the country. Stephen is sort of an intellectual at an unwashed state with paltry power to change anything in the society. He is a representative of many Irish young men who has ambitions but fails to admit themselves. The path to jump out of the loop of struggle and depress is to become an ordinary citizen.
5.	Molly
Molly is mainly considered as tempting and sexual. In the view of the traditional binary opposition of sex and autocracy of patriarchal society, she is an unfaithful and dissolute woman, and a demonstration of moral falls in western world. But the character of Molly forming via her childhood has no flaw. What if we view her just like looking at a man in that society? We may say Molly is energetic and powerful, though that HIS deed is not so good.
Like Bloom, Molly is a Dublin outsider. She was raised in the military atmosphere of Gibraltar by her father, Major Brian Tweedy. Molly never knew her mother, who was possibly Jewish, or just Jewish-looking. Bloom associates Molly with the “hot-blooded” Mediterranean regions, and, to a lesser degree, the exoticism of the East. Yet Molly considers her own childhood to have been normal, outside the dramatic entrances and exits of young, good-looking soldiers going off to war. Molly seems to organize her life around men and to have very few female friends. She enjoys being looked at and gains self-esteem from the admiration of men. [3] Molly is extremely self-aware and perceptive—she knows without looking when she is being looked at. A man’s admiration of her does not cloud her own negative judgments about him. She is frank about topics that other people are likely to sentimentalize—intimacy, mourning, and motherhood, for example. She is also frank about the extent to which living involves adaptations of different roles. Her sense of this truth—which is perhaps related to her own career as a stage singer.
However, there’s nothing wrong with her if we no longer judge her from the cognition of autocracy of patriarchal society. She pursues her own freedom and acts by following her sense of emotion and eagerness, instead of the rules made by men. No wonder in Wang’s opinion, she is a paragon of being unconventional and pursuing independence. [5]
6.	Conclusion
Joyce attempted to make human nature return to reason, and establish the direction for the future development of Irish people and their religious culture. In Ulysses the main characters are not anymore heroes, but Everymen. Bloom’s extraordinary capacity for sympathy and compassion allows him to empathize with such a wide variety of beings—cats, birds, dogs, dead men, vicious men, blind men, old ladies, a woman in labor, the poor, and so on—is the modern day equivalent to Odysseus’s capacity to adapt to a wide variety of challenges. Stephen is intelligent but so cynical and has no patient on others. He is not as courageous and wise as Telemachus. Molly is, however, Bloom’s wife not a queen. The only region she can affect is her house and several men in Dublin. It is because these characters are ordinary people, so they are full of life. We can see every aspect-- no matter good or evil of the person. Joyce changes the heroes from godlike images in epic to real men in the world, not attempting to show the dramatic convert of the personality. Thus, we have a perspective of a more subjective way to judge the world and the Irish society then, as everyone in the novel is at least one facet of Ireland.
7.	Reference
1.	From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia-- Ulysses (novel).
2.	殷企平，谈“互文性”，外国文学评论 No. 2, 1994.
3.	SparkNotes Editors. “SparkNote on Ulysses.” SparkNotes.com. SparkNotes LLC. 2003. Web. 11 May 2017.
4.	李维屏，现代主义精神的演示——论《尤利西斯》的人物描写艺术，外国语，No. 5, Step. 2007.
5.	王洪坤，王小雨，颠覆与建构——解读《尤利西斯》中摩莉的象征意义，文山学院学报，Vol. 30 No. 1 Feb. 2017.
